// Quick Reference for Asciidoc: http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/

= Educama RESTful API Documentation
educama.org;
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlightjs
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:sectlinks:

= Overview

== HTTP verbs

The Educama RESTful API tries to adhere as closely as possible to standard HTTP and REST conventions in its
use of HTTP verbs.

|===
| Verb | Usage

| `GET`
| Used to retrieve a resource

| `POST`
| Used to create a new resource

| `PUT`
| Used to update an resource

| `DELETE`
| Used to delete a resource
|===

[[overview-http-status-codes]]
== HTTP status codes

The Educama RESTful API tries to adhere as closely as possible to standard HTTP and REST conventions in its
use of HTTP status codes.

|===
| Status code | Usage

| `200 OK`
| The request completed successfully.

| `201 Created`
| A new resource has been created successfully.

| `204 No Content`
| An update to an existing resource has been applied successfully.

| `400 Bad Request`
| The request was malformed. The response body will include an error providing further information.

| `404 Not Found`
| The requested resource did not exist.

| `409 Precondition Failed`
| A precondition for the status transition of the resource was not met

| `500 Internal server error`
| An error has occurred on the server.
|===

= Resources

== Shipments

This resource provides the entry point with shipments.

=== Create Shipment

A `POST` request is used to create a shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/createShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/createShipmentTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/createShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/createShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Update Shipment

A `PUT` request is used to update a shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/updateShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/updateShipmentTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/updateShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/updateShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Add Flight to Shipment

A `PUT` request is used to add a flight to a shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/addFlightToShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/addFlightToShipmentTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/addFlightToShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/addFlightToShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Get a Shipment

A `GET` request is used to get a single shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/getShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/getShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/getShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== List of Shipments

A `GET` request is used to get a list of shipments.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/listShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/listShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/listShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

== Tasks

This resource provides the entry point for tasks.

=== List of Active Tasks

A `GET` request is used to get a list of all active tasks.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/listTasksTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/listTasksTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/listTasksTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== List of Completed Tasks for a Shipment

A `GET` request is used to get a list of completed tasks for a specific shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/getCompletedTasksTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/getCompletedTasksTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/getCompletedTasksTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== List of Active Tasks for a Shipment

A `GET` request is used to get a list of active tasks for a specific shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/getActiveTasksForShipmentTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/getActiveTasksForShipmentTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/getActiveTasksForShipmentTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== List of Enabled Tasks for a Shipment

A `GET` request is used to get a list of enabled tasks for a specific shipment.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/getEnabledTasksTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/getEnabledTasksTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/getEnabledTasksTest/response-fields.adoc[]

== Customer

This resource provides the entry point for customers.

=== Create a Customer

A `POST` request is used to create a customer.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/createCustomerTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/createCustomerTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/createCustomerTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/createCustomerTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Update a Customer

A `PUT` request is used to update a customer.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/updateCustomerTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/updateCustomerTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/updateCustomerTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/updateCustomerTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Delete a Customer

A `DELETE` request is used to delete a single customer.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/deleteCustomerTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/deleteCustomerTest/http-response.adoc[]

=== Get a single customer by identifier

A `GET` request is used to get a single customer.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/getSingleCustomerTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/getSingleCustomerTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/getSingleCustomerTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Get a (paged) list of Customers

A `GET` request is used to get a list of customers.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/listCustomersTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/listCustomersTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/listCustomersTest/response-fields.adoc[]

=== Get suggestions for Customers (by search term)

A `GET` request is used to get suggestions for customers based on a search term.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/suggestCustomersTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/suggestCustomersTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/suggestCustomersTest/response-fields.adoc[]

== Invoice

This resource provides the entry point for invoice.

=== Create a Invoice

A `POST` request is used to create a imvoice.

==== Example Request
include::{snippets}/createInvoiceTest/http-request.adoc[]

==== Request structure
include::{snippets}/createInvoiceTest/request-fields.adoc[]

==== Example Response
include::{snippets}/createInvoiceTest/http-response.adoc[]

==== Response structure
include::{snippets}/createInvoiceTest/response-fields.adoc[]
